{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf250
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
{\info
{\author English}}\paperw11905\paperh16837\margl1089\margr1089\margb1089\margt1089\vieww11920\viewh14740\viewkind1
\deftab420
\pard\pardeftab420\ri-1\qj

\f0\fs21 \cf0 PROGRAMMER'S GUIDE TO THE FIRST ROBOTICS COMPETITION
\f1 \
\pard\pardeftab420\li360\fi-360\ri-1\qj
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2 \cf0 1)	Understand the depths of the libraries available.  \
2)	Make sure there is a system in effect to keep the Operator Interface functioning smoothly.  This includes keeping the Driver Station fully charged and checking that all settings on the Driver Station and O/I electronics are correct.  \
3)	Have a copy of the repository on a flash drive to browse at competition and for version control.\
4)	Make the autonomous class delegate as much as possible so we can change it quickly\
5)	Maintain backup controls for the OI box.  Even if not used, it makes us look better if they were there and never needed.  \
6)	Review autonomous settings regularly, to ensure that they are both up to date and accurate with the needs of the strategy team.  \
7)	Talk to drivers early and often about board placement/interfaces/dashboard/etc\
8)It should be one person's responsibility to check the website for updates each day or two during the 6 weeks from home and download updates to a flash drive.\
9)Communicate with the lead engineer during build season about dividing the robot time.\
10) READ THE DOCUMENTATION.  Reading documentation before diving into a project answers 95% of questions down the road, as well as gives you an idea of what you're working with and what you can do.  \
11) Keep version-controlled copies of the code on flash drives.  These are real life savers in an emergency.  \
\
}